Kaptain 2.0.0 Release Notes (#4378)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kaptain/2.0.0/release-notes/2.0.0/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Release Notes for Kaptain 2.0.0
title: Release Notes for Kaptain 2.0.0
menuWeight: 5
beta: false
excerpt: View release-specific information for Kaptain
---

**D2iQ&reg; Kaptain&reg; version 2.0.0 was released on April 25, 2022.**

To get started with Kaptain, [download](../../download) and [install](../../install) the latest version of Kaptain.

# Release Summary

> This release provides new features and capabilities that improve user experience, resolves reported issues, and changes the way Kaptain is deployed. This release supports Kubeflow 1.5 and a new version of the Kaptain SDK, 1.1.0. For more information on SDK 1.1.0, see [SDK release notes](../../sdk/1.1.x/release-notes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release provides new features and capabilities that improve user experience, resolves reported issues, and changes the way Kaptain is deployed. This release supports Kubeflow 1.5 and a new version of the Kaptain SDK, 1.0.1. For more information on SDK 1.0.1, see [SDK release notes](../../sdk/1.0.x/release-notes).
```

## New features and capabilities

### Added Kaptain as DKP Catalog application

TBD

### Extended Support for Amazon EKS, Azure EKS and DKP multi-cluster

TBD

### Helm based deployment

> TBD

Author: ```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 now uses helm based deployment which makes it easier to integrate into DKP and other platforms.
```

> TBD

Author: ```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 now uses helm based deployment which makes it easier to integrate into DKP and other platforms.
```

### Support for Kubernetes 1.22 and Kubeflow 1.5

> TBD

Author: ```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 now comes with Kubeflow 1.5 and supports Kubernetes 1.22
```

> TBD

Author: ```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 now comes with Kubeflow 1.5 and supports Kubernetes 1.22
```

### Missed something?

TBD

## Fixes and Improvements

> - Moved from KFServing to KServe

Author: There are some SDK related fixes, but I think that has its own release notes?

Reviewer 2: any cops fixes usually go here as well

> - Moved from KFServing to KServe

Author: There are some SDK related fixes, but I think that has its own release notes?

## Software updates

- Kubeflow 1.5.0
- Argo Workflows 3.1.6
- Katib 0.TBD.0
- KServe TBD
- Percona Kubernetes Operator 1.10.0
- Kubeflow Pipelines 1.8.1
- Training Operator 1.3.0
- Tensorflow 2.5.0
- CUDA 11.4

> - MXNet 1.9

Author: these need to be updated.

> - MXNet 1.9

Author: these need to be updated.

> ## Software updates
> 
> - Kubeflow 1.5.0
> - Argo Workflows 3.1.6
> - Katib 0.TBD.0
> - KServe TBD
> - Percona Kubernetes Operator 1.10.0
> - Kubeflow Pipelines 1.8.1
> - Training Operator 1.3.0
> - Tensorflow 2.5.0
> - CUDA 11.4
> - MXNet 1.9

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Software updates

- Kubeflow 1.5.0
- Argo Workflows 3.2.3
- Katib 0.13.0
- KServe 0.7.0
- Percona Kubernetes Operator 1.10.0
- Kubeflow Pipelines 1.8.1
- Training Operator 1.4.0
- Tensorflow 2.8.0
- Pytorch 1.11.0
- CUDA 11.4
- MXNet 1.9
- Horovod 0.24.2
```

To get started with Kaptain, [download](../../download) and [install](../../install) the latest version of Kaptain.

# Release Summary

This release provides new features and capabilities that improve user experience, resolves reported issues, and changes the way Kaptain is deployed. This release supports Kubeflow 1.5 and a new version of the Kaptain SDK, 1.0.1. For more information on SDK 1.0.1, see [SDK release notes](../../sdk/1.0.x/release-notes).

## New features and capabilities

### Added Kaptain as DKP Catalog application

Starting with Kaptain 2.0, it can be easily installed via the DKP catalog. [something something something]. Kaptain 2.0 is supported on DKP 2.1.2 onwards.

### Extended Support for Amazon EKS, Azure EKS and DKP multi-cluster

Kaptain 2.0 is now validated (verified?) to be deployed on attached clusters running on Amazon EKS and Azure AKS. 

### Helm based deployment

Kaptain 2.0 now uses helm based deployment which makes it easier to integrate into DKP and other platforms.

### Support for Kubernetes 1.22 and Kubeflow 1.5

Kaptain 2.0 now comes with Kubeflow 1.5 and supports Kubernetes 1.22

> ### Missed something?
> 
> TBD

Author: ```suggestion
### Bundle size reduction

Kaptain 2.0 drastically reduces the bundle sizes, especially for the GPU bundle:

- Base installation: 31.8 GB (last release it was 33.2 GB)
- CPU bundle: 12.4 GB (last release: 34.3 GB)
- GPU bundle: 17.2 GB (last release: 84.7 GB)
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe:

```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 drastically reduces the bundle sizes improving download times, especially for the CPU and GPU bundle:
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Release Notes for Kaptain 2.0.0
title: Release Notes for Kaptain 2.0.0
menuWeight: 5
beta: false
excerpt: View release-specific information for Kaptain
---

**D2iQ&reg; Kaptain&reg; version 2.0.0 was released on April 25, 2022.**

To get started with Kaptain, [download](../../download) and [install](../../install) the latest version of Kaptain.

# Release Summary

> This release provides new features and capabilities that improve user experience, resolves reported issues, and changes the way Kaptain is deployed. This release supports Kubeflow 1.5 and a new version of the Kaptain SDK, 1.0.1. For more information on SDK 1.0.1, see [SDK release notes](../../sdk/1.0.x/release-notes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
D2iQ is announcing Kaptain 2.0 which includes several user experience features, additional platforms supported, and resolves reported issues. This continues our tradition of customer-led development making Kaptain even easier to deploy, supporting more platforms, and incorporating the latest innovations from the open source community in the hot AI/ML marketplace. Kaptain 2.0 supports Kubeflow 1.5 and a new version of the Kaptain SDK, 1.0.1. For more information on SDK 1.0.1, see [SDK release notes](../../sdk/1.0.x/release-notes).
```

## New features and capabilities

### Added Kaptain as DKP Catalog application

> Starting with Kaptain 2.0, it can be easily installed via the DKP catalog. [something something something]. Kaptain 2.0 is supported on DKP 2.1.2 onwards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with Kaptain 2.0, it can be easily installed via the DKP workspace catalog in both single and multi-cluster experiences. Kaptain 2.0 is supported on DKP 2.1.2 onwards.
```

> ### Extended Support for Amazon EKS, Azure EKS and DKP multi-cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Support for Amazon EKS, Azure EKS and DKP multi-cluster
```

> Kaptain 2.0 can be deployed on attached clusters running on Amazon EKS and Azure AKS. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 can be deployed on attached clusters running on Amazon AWS EKS and Microsoft Azure AKS.  This extends D2iQ’s openness to support Kubernetes platforms beyond DKP with Kaptain.
```

> Kaptain 2.0 is now validated (verified?) to be deployed on attached clusters running on Amazon EKS and Azure AKS. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 can be deployed on attached clusters running on Amazon EKS and Azure AKS. 
```

### Helm based deployment

Kaptain 2.0 now uses helm based deployment which makes it easier to integrate into DKP and other platforms.

### Support for Kubernetes 1.22 and Kubeflow 1.5

> Kaptain 2.0 now comes with Kubeflow 1.5 and supports Kubernetes 1.22

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kaptain 2.0 comes with Kubeflow 1.5, which includes expanded user control over mounted volumes, increased visibility into idle notebooks, UI improvements, and improvements to hyperparameter tuning. Kaptain 2.0 also supports Kubernetes 1.22 which contains upstream improvements such as security enhancements.
```

### Bundle size reduction

Kaptain 2.0 drastically reduces the bundle sizes improving download times, especially for the CPU and GPU bundle:

- Base installation: 31.8 GB (down from 33.2 GB)
- CPU bundle: 12.4 GB (down from 34.3 GB)
- GPU bundle: 17.2 GB (down from 84.7 GB)

## Fixes and Improvements

> - Moved from KFServing to KServe

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Moved from KFServing to KServe
* Fixed the cudatoolkit version regression (COPS-7219)
* Fixed A100 MIG GPU issue by installing the DCGM (Data Center GPU Manager) on the nodes (COPS-7211)
* Updated the version of the PyTorch MNIST tutorial (COPS-7157)
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Release Notes for Kaptain 2.0.0
title: Release Notes for Kaptain 2.0.0
menuWeight: 5
beta: false
excerpt: View release-specific information for Kaptain
---

> **D2iQ&reg; Kaptain&reg; version 2.0.0 was released on April 25, 2022.**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**D2iQ&reg; Kaptain&reg; version 2.0.0 was released on April 26, 2022.**
```

### Support for Amazon EKS, Azure EKS and DKP multi-cluster

Kaptain 2.0 can be deployed on attached clusters running on Amazon AWS EKS and Microsoft Azure AKS.  This extends D2iQ’s openness to support Kubernetes platforms beyond DKP with Kaptain.

### Helm based deployment

Kaptain 2.0 now uses helm based deployment which makes it easier to integrate into DKP and other platforms.

### Support for Kubernetes 1.22 and Kubeflow 1.5

Kaptain 2.0 comes with Kubeflow 1.5, which includes expanded user control over mounted volumes, increased visibility into idle notebooks, UI improvements, and improvements to hyperparameter tuning. Kaptain 2.0 also supports Kubernetes 1.22 which contains upstream improvements such as security enhancements.

### Bundle size reduction

Kaptain 2.0 drastically reduces the bundle sizes improving download times, especially for the CPU and GPU bundle:

- Base installation: 31.8 GB (down from 33.2 GB)
- CPU bundle: 12.4 GB (down from 34.3 GB)
- GPU bundle: 17.2 GB (down from 84.7 GB)

## Fixes and Improvements

* Moved from KFServing to KServe

> * Fixed the cudatoolkit version regression (COPS-7219)

Author: ```suggestion
* Fixed the cudatoolkit version regression (COPS-7219)
* Bumped Pytorch to 1.11 and CUDA to 11.4 to support modern multi-instance GPUs, such as Nvidia A100 (COPS-7211)
```

> ## Software updates

Author: ```suggestion
## Software versions
```

Reviewer 2: "Software updates" is what we have used in previous RN
